Join the LangChain Community Slack These guidelines have been created to help everyone understand how to best engage and contribute. We appreciate your support in building a community we can all be proud of! Our Slack Community is designed for open discussion, sharing events and job opportunities, and showcasing your agents. It’s not intended for product support. If you're looking for product help, check out the LangChain Forum instead. We ask everyone to use real identities because we want you to be mindful of your tone and discourse in all forums. When in doubt, pay extra consideration if your words are constructive and supportive, and contribute to making the space a place one in which people can share and create freely. All participants in LangChain Community spaces – including Slack, code repositories, and meetups – must adhere to the Community Code of Conduct. If you cannot comply with these guidelines, we ask that you refrain from participating in the community. We will remove people from the community who do not follow our conduct guidelines. Use Slack for broader conversations, events, hearing about content, and showcasing your agents—not for asking questions. In Slack, send your posts in a single message, use threads, and post in the appropriate channels. If you are sharing a large snippet of code, put it in the thread of your message. Do not seek extra attention by tagging individuals, double-posting, or bumping your message by sending to the channel. Report bugs to support[at]langchain.dev. Vendors typically include individuals from companies offering products or services aimed at our LangChain Community. This category also covers recruiters, investors, open-source maintainers (whether they have a paid offering or not), consultants, and freelancers. When in doubt, it's best to be cautious. As a vendor, you are part of this community, and we encourage your full participation. We’ve observed that those who engage with the intention of sharing, rather than pitching, build great user relationships for their products. Conversely, community members can easily sense when they are being treated as an audience or resource for monetization, which often leads to a negative response. Vendors must keep promotional content within designated areas.The LangChain community is primarily a non-commercial space. Unsolicited DMs will not be tolerated. For community members interested in staying updated with the AI industry, the Community Slack provides several spaces for vendors to share promotional material: - #vendor-content - #events - #vendor- specific channels - #survey-corner The definition of "vendor content" can sometimes be unclear, and we rely our members' judgment in these cases. Generally, if the content is hosted on a site controlled by the company or its employees (including platforms like Substack and Medium) or includes a call-to-action such as signing up for a mailing list or trial account, it will likely be considered promotional.